# Data Description
This food science and technology project aims to investigate the optimal hydrophobic coating derived from agricultural residues (e.g., food and agricultural biomass) for use on fiber-based packaging. Agricultural residues contain valuable natural compounds such as phenolics, lipids, and cellulose that can be utilized for various applications, including packaging materials. Fiber-based packaging alone has poor barrier properties, and conventional plastic or chemical coatings used to enhance its structure pose health and environmental risks. Thus, compounds extracted from agricultural residues can be formulated into coatings to improve fiber-based packaging materials. The performance of these coatings for this type of packaging will be quantitatively measured for their barrier properties, mechanical strength, contact angle, morphology, antioxidant activity, and antimicrobial activity, and qualitatively by their appearance over a specified period to ensure that the packaging performs at optimal conditions appropriate for commercial use in the food industry. All variables will be measured and calculated using the protocols previously used in the lab and found in the literature. Datasets are a combination of (1) quantitative measurements calculated and stored on Excel spreadsheets and Minitab (a statistical software) worksheets, which will be converted to .csv files, and (2) iPhone photographs of samples uploaded to Box and the researcher’s laptop as .jpg files in folders labeled with the subject name and date taken.

Collecting data consists of various experimental methods and equipment, which includes:
(a)	Barrier properties: Water vapor absorption will be measured by placing samples into a controlled relative humidity chamber and measuring their weight every hour over the course of a specific period using a scale. Values will be recorded in a lab notebook and then transferred to an Excel spreadsheet for calculations. The spreadsheets will be converted into .csv files and uploaded to Box, OneDrive, and laptop folders. This data will be <1 MB.
(b)	Mechanical strength: Tensile strength will be measured using a texture analyzer, and force values will be recorded in a lab notebook before transferring values into an Excel spreadsheet for calculations. The spreadsheets will be converted into .csv files and uploaded to Box, OneDrive, and laptop folders. This data will be <1 MB.
(c)	Contact angle: A drop of water is dropped onto the sample surface and photographed and measured for its angle. The photographs will be stored as .jpg files in Box, OneDrive, and laptop folders, and angle measurements will be stored as .csv files. This data will be <1 MB.
(d)	Morphology: Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) will detect the surface morphology of the coated fiber packaging, and images will be saved as .jpg files in Box, OneDrive, and laptop folders. This data will be <1 GB due to the large image file sizes.
(e)	Antioxidant activity: Following the method used in the lab, samples will be treated with a DPPH solution and analyzed with a spectrophotometer. Spectrophotometric measurements will be recorded in a lab notebook and then transferred to an Excel spreadsheet for antioxidant activity calculations. This data will be <1 MB.
(f)	Antimicrobial activity: Following the method used in the lab, samples will be placed onto Petri dishes, incubated, and the inhibition of growth around the sample will be measured quantitatively using a caliper. Values will be recorded in a lab notebook and then transferred to an Excel spreadsheet for calculations. Phone images of the plates and spreadsheets, converted to .csv files, will be stored in Box, OneDrive, and laptop folders. This data will be <1 GB total.
(g)	Appearance: The packaging will be stored at different temperature conditions, and iPhone photographs will be taken at certain times to observe visible changes that occur. Images will be stored as .ipg files in Box, OneDrive, and laptop folders. This data will be <1 GB due to the large image file sizes.

Values for each measurement will be reported as the mean and standard deviation. A one-way ANOVA with a post-hoc LSD test will be used to analyze the values using Minitab to determine statistically significant differences. Upon publication of the manuscript associated with the project, all physical samples will be disposed of. The total size of the dataset is estimated to be 256 GB.

# Roles and Responsibilities
Throughout the project, the primary researcher will be responsible for multiple data-related roles, including data collection, documentation, analysis, and organization. The primary researcher is also responsible for sharing results with the PI through a shared folder on Box. The PI has authority over how the data should be managed. They will be responsible for implementing the Data Management Plan (DMP) and assisting with data planning, analysis, communication, editing, and publishing. The PI is also responsible for ensuring that data collection is conducted properly so that future researchers can trust and rely on the procedures and analyses used. The postdoctoral scholar in the lab is responsible for instrumentation maintenance and quality control, ensuring that instruments are calibrated and in working order, that procedures and lab supplies are up to date, and that lab members have received proper safety and experimental training, so that the data they collect is collected correctly. If necessary, the postdoctoral scholar will also assist with data collection and analysis. If the primary researcher leaves the lab, the PI will be responsible for searching for a different team member to take over their data management responsibilities. If the PI leaves the lab, the institution (Oregon State University) will retain ownership of the data, and the project will not continue since they are the ones leading it.

Since the project does not involve human or animal subjects, there is no need to handle such sensitive data. The lab requires researchers to upload their files to their personal Box folders, which are accessible to the PI. The project is anticipated to be funded by the USDA and will be consistent with the approved USDA plan. The USDA guidelines state that all peer-reviewed scholarly publications funded by the organization must be deposited immediately in PubAg and made freely accessible to the public. In addition, underlying unclassified research data must be openly published using a reputable repository, filed in the Ag Data Commons, and include a digital persistent identifier. The DMP will therefore align with the guidelines set by the USDA.

All data will be stored on the primary researcher’s personal computer and in a lab notebook and backed up to a flash drive, a Box account, and an automatically backed-up OneDrive. To ensure data is backed up manually frequently, a weekly reminder will be set on the researchers’ computers. The PI and other associated researchers will have access to all digital data throughout the project via an external hard drive, a flash drive, and shared Box and OneDrive folders. Upon completion of the project, lab notebooks used to document data will remain in a secure storage area in one of the lab spaces, and digital data will be archived in Ag Data Commons. Multiple copies of digital data will be created (Box, OneDrive, external drive, computer, repository), ensuring it is stored across multiple locations and reducing the likelihood of future loss. The primary researcher and associated researchers are responsible for ensuring that all data files are up to date and appropriately labeled to prevent the use of incorrect files or data loss. The PI will archive Box and OneDrive data related to the project when the primary researcher or other associates leave the institution.

# Data Standards and Metadata
1.	In the field of food science and technology, metadata standards are not established due to the wide range of sub-disciplines. In the sustainable food processing and packaging lab, an example of a metadata practice is data documentation, which will be done using multiple formats. Data collection and procedures will be recorded in lab notebooks and later transferred to electronic formats, such as Word documents or Excel spreadsheets, within one week of collection. These files will be converted into file types that are easily accessible for long periods of time (.txt, .csv). Digital computer reminders will be set up to ensure researchers remember to perform these data practices promptly. The written procedures will be retained both physically and electronically in the lab for current and future lab members to refer to, streamlining data collection and analysis. To keep the data organized, the files will be labeled with the project name, instrument or test used, sample name, and the date of measurement or creation, and organized into folders by intended use. The files will be named as project_instrument_sample_YYYYMMDD for meaningful data documentation. An example would be a .csv file labeled as “template_mechanical_properties_20260609” for a spreadsheet template for calculating tensile strength of coated fiber-based packaging. A data dictionary describing variables (e.g., units, acronyms) will be included as a .txt file to complement the spreadsheet data files. The electronic files will be uploaded to the Box and OneDrive folders shared with lab members, with access to previous versions of the files. Versions of each file will be recorded by including the version name in the file name (e.g., template_mechanical_properties_20260609_version2). Since the lab works with multiple chemicals, a list of abbreviations for the most frequently used ones will also be documented electronically as a .txt file and uploaded to Box and OneDrive for easy reference. 

For quantitative data (mechanical properties, barrier properties, contact angle, antioxidant activity, antimicrobial activity), all data will first be handwritten in a lab notebook and then transferred to an Excel spreadsheet. It will then be saved as a .csv file to safely preserve the data for future use. All data will be organized into separate folders by method type. A written procedure for each will also be included in each folder as a .txt file. For qualitative data (morphology, appearance), images will be saved as .jpg files for long-term access and organized into folders by data type. Details, including treatment type, date taken, formulation type, and any other necessary information, will be documented in a Word document and stored in the appropriate folders. For additional data preservation, .txt files will also be used to document procedures and other parameters necessary for data collection and analysis. 

# Storage and Security
Some aspects of the research project would need to be protected for intellectual property reasons. Since the primary outcome is the development of hydrophobic coatings from food and agricultural residues to enhance fiber-based packaging, the technology used to achieve this is highly likely to be patented. As a result, there are limitations on what data can be made publicly available. In this scenario, the USDA is projected to fund this project. Under its data-sharing and patent clauses, data must be shared if the grant exceeds $500,000, while still protecting proprietary data. The USDA also states that researchers are not required to share research data if it is considered proprietary data assets, would be inconsistent with US national, homeland, or economic security, or would have a significant negative impact on intellectual property rights, innovation, and US competitiveness. The data authors (e.g., PI, primary researcher) can submit a waiver or a timeline extension if the data does not qualify under the exemption criteria but believe it should not be shared publicly. The coatings' formulation data would be classified as proprietary and not published to prevent other researchers from using it to develop the same technology and potentially patent it in advance. Data on the performance of the coatings on the packaging would be available for others to reference when conducting their own experiments, enhancing transparency and public accountability in science. If any dataset is too large to share, it can be split into smaller files, saved to a linked cloud storage location (e.g., OneDrive or Box), or compressed with specialized data tools (e.g., 7-Zip).

# Access and Sharing
According to the USDA, data generated from USDA-funded research must be publicly shared on or before the date of publication or by the end of the funding period. The data would be submitted to the Ag Data Commons and publications to PubAg. Proprietary data would not be shared for confidentiality reasons as previously explained. The data formats used would need to be machine-readable and up to date, such as .csv, .txt, PDF/A, and .jpg. The data would fall under the public domain under the USDA licensing agreements, with a Creative Commons license (CC-BY). When submitting data to this repository, it will include a DOI to distinguish it for better accessibility.

# Archiving and Preservation
To archive and preserve data, a data preservation plan will be created and implemented for all lab projects to ensure consistency and applicability to future work. Data, both numerical and images (e.g., spreadsheets as .csv, images as .jpg, codes/methods/metadata procedures as .txt), as well as descriptions of the files, will be archived and preserved for 15 years to allow adequate time for current and future researchers in the lab to refer to them. This complies with Oregon State University’s data retention policy, which requires at least 5 years. The PI would be responsible for managing and maintaining the data throughout this period. Data collected by the primary researcher would be shared with the PI and other affiliated collaborators via folders and subfolders organized by data type to ensure full transparency in the research. At least three copies of the data would be kept and backed up on at least two different media types (e.g., Box, Ag Data Commons repository), with one copy stored off-site. The PI and researchers are responsible for updating older data formats every 3 – 5 years and ensuring all files are saved in standardized formats supported by current technology.
